OK so now we have a script that can change the MAC address of land 0 2 0 0 0 1 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 6 6.
Now as you can see this is not a great script because all we can use it for is to change the MAC address
of land zero to this specific MAC address.
So we can't use it to change the MAC address of any other interface and we can't change it to any other
MAC address other than this one unless you come in and manually change the code here which is not a
good practice.
So a better implementation would be to use variables for the places that vary.
So we have the last zero.
Here is a variable the value of it can change depending on the interface that the person wants to use.
So if you change the MAC address of each Seijiro you can set it zero if you want to change the MAC address
of line 1.
If you are to wireless interfaces then you can change for one.
Therefore this value right here is a variable and it's better to use a variable for that.
Same goes for the MAC address here.
As described before if you're actually using this in real life you'd want to be always using a different
MAC address and you want always want to use the same MAC address over and over.
Therefore it will make sense to use a variable for the value of the MAC address in here as well.
And what I mean by a variable is a value that can be easily changed through the user input or through
the program itself.
Now variables are used everywhere in programming in all programming languages not only in Python and
they are very useful.
You can't really write a program without a variable.
So technically speaking a variable as a location in memory that contains a certain value.
But what we actually mean by that is it's a word or a name that stores a value something very similar
to when we use x and y in math we always used variables and we always got questions in exams to find
X and solve equations and all that and all the letters in these equations are variables.
So you can think of a variable as a box that contains a certain value or as a container that contains
a certain value.
Now very simple example that I have here is we can just do in Python.
Set X equals 1 then X will hold the value of 1.
So you can say Y is equal to x plus X that means y is equal to one plus one.
Then why is going to have a value of two.
And then you can print Y and you'll see two on screen.
Now this is very simple and not useful and that's why programming can be boring if you don't have a
purpose.
So we're not going to be doing this what we are going to do is adopt this in our cool script in here.
So we want to learn zero to be a variable and we want the mark to be a variable.
So all we have to do is before we use these variables type them in here.
So we're going to create our first variable and to create that.
All you have to do is just type its name.
Now in math we're used to use x and y when we're using variables.
You can do that with Python but it's not a good practice.
It's better to name your variables meaningful names so names that are relevant to the value that's stored
in that variable you can use letters and numbers and variables but it has to start with a letter or
an underscore.
You can use the underscore anywhere within the variable name and the names are case sensitive.
So since we want to use meaningful names.
Very good variable name would be interface to hold the value for the interface.
Now our interface is like zero.
So we're going to initialize that to line zero.
Now we have a variable or a box named interface and it has a value of zero.
So everywhere we use line zero we can just substitute interface and Python as it interprets the code.
It'll replace any occurrence of interface with the value that we set it to which is land zero.
Now before I use that in the code here because this is something new I'm going to use it in a print
statement.
It's actually a really good idea as you go along with coding to print stuff as you're programming so
you can see what's the value for that variable.
At this line or at this moment of time.
So it's a good practice and it'll actually make you understand the idea of variables more and you'll
get more comfortable with it.
So first of all I'm just going to comment all of this basically commenting a line means that we're telling
Python to ignore this line and don't treat it as code to do that.
All we have to do is just put the high symbol before the line.
Or you can press control and forward slash.
And that will automatically add comments to multiple lines so whenever we run this code all of this
will be ignored.
And what I want to do in here I actually want to use a very simple print statement and inside it we're
just going to give notification to the user and we're just going to say changing my address for and
then I want to say the name of the interface that the script will work on.
So we have to use the interface variable in here and to do that all we have to do is append that this
variable to the string.
So like we said before any sequence of characters enclosed between two quotations is treated as a string
or it's called a string in Python.
Now since our variable is a string as well as you can see it's a sequence of characters as well.
So all you have to do in Python is just pull applause followed by the the variable name which is interface
and that's it.
Now when we interpret this let's go down and do it.
So for just do Python Mike changer that way you'll see it's going to print for me changing my address
for.
And instead of interface here it replaced it with the value that we have here which is like zero.
Now this is cool but if you look at our code here and remember what we said we also want to use a variable
for the mac address value.
So let's do that let's call this variable now Neumark and let's said that 2 0 0 1 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 and
we'll set it to 7 7 this time so different than the last time.
Now again simply by doing this we created a new variable or a new box or a new container that's called
Neumark and its value is a sequence of characters enclosed between two quotations.
So it's a string.
Now let's append that to our string in here so we have the string in the print statement and I want
to say changing MAC address for interface or for line 0 2 and then put the value of the Mac which we're
going to change the current MAC address to.
So again just to append the string all we have to do is just put applause followed by the rest of the
string which is we're saying change the MAC address for interface 2 and then we want to put the value
of the of the Neumark address again.
All we have to do is put a applause followed by the new mark and that's it.
So all we're saying is change your MAC address for we close the quotation and then we put our variable
because if we put the variable inside the quotation.
Python will think this is part of the string and it'll just printed as interface.
It won't substitute its value with line 0.
Same goes with using the new Mac in here.
If you put that inside the quotation it'll just treat that as a string and it won't print its value.
So now if we go down and just run our code again as you can see it's printin changing MAC address for
line zero so substituted the value of interface with zero with the value that we initialized it to.
And it's changing it to the Neumark again.
It's substituting the mike variable with this.
Now just as a quick test I know I spend a bit too much time on this but just as a quick test if I put
the Neumark here inside the string and run this you'll see that the interface will be substituted with
the value of land 0.
But Python will not know that Neumark is a variable.
It all just printed as part of the string because we put it inside the quotation mark so that's it for
now.
Just a quick introduction to variables.
I wanted to show you how to use it in a print statement and get into the habit of printing the value
of variables because when you have longer code it might be a smart idea to print it as you write in
the code to make sure that its value is still what you want it to be and the next lecture will use the
variables that we just created in the code so that we can change the MAC address and the interface quickly
using these variables.